Descrição do projeto:

Project 06 - We don't really miss you (Cristiane)

Introduction

The light we detect from the galaxies we observe is affected by the expansion of the universe, which causes its electromagnetic spectrum to redshift.
To estimate the spectral redshift we use emission lines from known elements, such as hydrogen and iron. We compare those line’s wavelengths emitted
by the galaxy to the wavelengths emitted  by an object at rest, thus the redshift is z = (𝝀-𝝀0)/𝝀0. However, this procedure is not practical to use
in large volumes of data, becoming a problem to the astrophysicists nowadays. A different technique uses photometry to estimate the redshift: you
can compare the brightness of a galaxy viewed through various standard filters to ready-made templates that represent a galaxy at various redshifts,
and one can check which template fits better. Another way is to employ supervised machine learning techniques to create models that are able to
predict the values of the redshifts based only on photometric measures. It seems necessary to point out that despite the clear practical advantage,
these methods are said in literature to be not so precise as the spectroscopic way to determine the redshift, and besides, there is the fact that
missing data can affect the results and influence the error in prediction.



Goal

Our goal is to evaluate the effectiveness of different machine learning techniques in predic the photometric redshift incorporating missing data
approaches to the input data used to train and test the models, studying its effects on the predictive models generated. One of the prospects is
to find the relative importance of each band in the final prediction of the inferred photometric redshift. 



What am I going to do?

We will use machine learning techniques such as random forest and dense neural network. First, to train the models we will calculate the limit in
the magnitude for each band in the survey, and remove all data that has one or more missing values, and choose then a set of bands to use, such
as G, R, I, Z, W1, W2. Then, we choose one band at a time to exclude from the data and infer the quality of the predictions. Finally, now we
test again with all the initial bands, but we choose a band at a time and use 50% of the data, filling the other 50% with missing data techniques.
One kind of missing data technique is to utilize the mean of the neighboring bands. Other kind that can be used is the Copula Imputation.

The file with the data used in this work can be found in https://drive.google.com/file/d/1b6WHewMuFdIagizQm2sFTaNcbg7coHcU/view?usp=sharing

The clean data is in https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ZYyZhndvKFoC3tm2V7hcZyR8KVCZq2Sy/view?usp=sharing

In the Dense file, you will find the notebooks that "went wrong" using Dense Neural Networks, and the ones with missing data techniques.
In the Random file we use the Random Forest.

More information in the slides called apresentation.
